[[spirituality node link]]
[[! Devos node link]]
_Trust in the LORD with All Your Heart_

3:5-7 _“Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. Be not wise in your own eyes; fear the LORD, and turn away from evil.”_

We must trust in the LORD, believing that he is wise and all knowing, and trust that HIS understanding of ALL THINGS are greater than ours. In this, we should take what he places on our hearts, take what he challenges us with, and take his way with trust that we can lean on His Power.

Understanding that our wisdom is a small fraction of HIS is important. Our wisdom from “_your own eyes_” pales in comparison to His wisdom and knowledge.

- Fear the LORD. What does this mean?
    - There is not a greater enemy to fear than the LORD himself. If I believe that the LORD is a Real and Powerful and Omnipotent being (Through FAITH and evidence; Aquinas’ Proofs, etc.), then shouldn’t I fear Him and treat Him with reverence and respect?

_Blessed is the One Who Finds Wisdom_

3:13-20

True Wisdom, and wisdom with Understanding is a blessing. One that should be revered and valued over “_gain from silver and…gold”._ Essentially, knowledge with understanding of the Word and our Lord is something to be prioritized over earthly desires. (3:19) The Lord created the Earth by wisdom and the Heavens by understanding. We must be willing to part from all for the pursuit of wisdom and true understanding.

3:21-35

Keep sound wisdom and discretion. Wisdom with Application and real use in our lives. This allows us to walk safely, “_Then you will walk on your way securely, and your foot will not stumble…”_

Our business on earth is to observe the example of Christ and to copy it, to walk in it: to stray from sinners, to not envy your friends, to not choose the ways of the evil, for those - the wicked - are those whom the LORD curses. The curse of the LORD is one to be FEARED. ^ If the LORD has the power to create the earth and the heavens, and to program this world in such a way that our bodies can function to the complexity and the atomic level that they do, the power of the curse and the animosity of the LORD is something to be feared and taken caution to stray against. But not JUST out of FEAR, out of LOVE. One without the other is useless. You need to FEAR the LORD but ALSO to LOVE Him. “_Towards the scorners he is scornful but to the humble he gives favor. The wise will inherit honor but fools get disgrace”_. It should be found and discovered that there is little gained by striving. Nothing has to be that effortful or that complex. Simply come before the Lord, Love Him, Fear Him, and Love on others with that same love. Divine favour is shown to the humble believer.

_Current Prayer_

My current prayer is to derive more of my knowledge from the Word. I yearn for my decisions to be made from a Christlike perspective. Simple practical things like being able to list off verses and remember things from the Bible is good, but I want my own life to be a life that I have built on the foundation of my Faith, and by extension, my identity. I just want to dwell in the Word of God and to LOVE to read the word, not just to build a habit of it. I think this is one of my big motivations for Truly reading the Word and recording my thoughts through this.