[[spirituality hnl]]
**prayer for:**
- church, to cultivate a spiritually leading place, with intentional fellowship and acts that point back to you
- personal faith to rely on you unconsciously, and reactively

**read:**
Matthew 8:
- Jesus' cleansing of disease and his primary miracles.
	- Jesus cleanses a leper
	- Stops the storm
		- Criticizes his disciples for panicking.
			- Use this as an example. You should be grounded and forever assured in any situation because of your faith that God provides and that he is looking out for us.
	- Cures the friend of the man with strong faith, Centurion (Matthew 8:5-13)
- Says "there is no right time with God"
	- Tells the man waiting to mourn and bury his soon to be late father to "Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead"


***North Boston Sermon 04/06/2025 Sunday Service***
**John 2: 1-22 (Focus on 1-11)**
The Wedding in Cana (Galilee)
2 miracles, 1 private and 1 public. Uses *contrast*. 
weddings were different back then. they were a lot more public and large events. 7 days long, and could go through Sundays. Were always huge and social events.


first is the water into wine at the wedding. saves the wedding hosts from much embarrassment. running out of wine at a wedding means the host did not prepare enough and was VERY shameful. a fall from grace per se.
Mary and Jesus have a funny interaction here, he says "What does that have to do with me", and Mary still says "Do what he says"
- Jesus says "my hour/time has not yet come"

Also a symbol of Jesus' purpose. Six stone water jugs were used for purification from Sin. Six is the biblical number of man, and imperfection. Wine is the symbol for blood. This miracle symbolizes Jesus replacing our hollow purpose and inner meaning with his righteous and holy blood. 
We can observe 3 things about the jars
- The jars are made up of stone/clay
	- Clay jars are generally considered impure.
	- Stone jars were used here
- Hold 20-30 gallons
- Used for purification rights.
	- Water within this jar is used for purification
		- Not just talking about being forgiven, or cleansed, but also there is ceremonial impurity (fixing a blemish that makes you unclean and unfit before the LORD)
			- Like when it is a certain time of the month for women
			- When you touch something unclean
			- Diseased
	- Usually you need to clean yourself at the river 7 times, or many times, but you have this water to purify yourself once.
	- This story is about Jesus turning purification into providence
He turns water into wine within Ceremonial Jars. Jesus uses this moment to cover the wedding hosts lack.
We sometimes view God as punitive (intended as punishment), instead of understanding the relationship, and the gap that has been bridged between us. 